developer's code of conduct.md, before:

<div align="justify">

# GTNH Developer’s Code of Conduct and Contribution Guidelines

## Behavior
Any GT:NH dev must be respectful to anyone on the GitHub, and in Discord, or any other place where they might represent the GT:NH project (no insulting, no maliciously trolling, no looking down on the others etc). Basically, don't be a jerk. In particular, no insulting other developers if they do not agree with your ideas, and vice versa. This can be a reason to be demoted, no matter your contributions to the pack.

## Documentation in PR
To improve review quality, in PR about new feature/feature change/balance changes, you should always explain what you are doing in the PR, and why you did it. The more precise your description, the better, as it helps to decide if the change is ok or not. Screenshots and videos are a bonus, as they can directly be copy/pasted in #upcoming-features. Titles should be written as if they are to be read from a changelog, given that is how it is autogenerated (context is important!), About the commits, prefer multiple short ones over one big commit, and name them in such way that they are reflective of your changes.

## Content creation
1) You should avoid touching areas of the pack you have never reached personally as a player, unless you have feedback from other devs/players who are experienced in those areas.
2) You should avoid adding new content below IV tier, the game is already dense enough as it is (especially the chemlines!). However, bug fixes and QoL changes are always appreciated. If you have a good reason to add it, discuss with the team in #meta-dev, and if general consensus is reached, then you can start working on it. This is important! We don’t want anyone to waste dev time on PRs that will get rejected.
3) Don't make PRs with new stuff if it hasn't been discussed with the team before. We had enough occurrences of that in the pack, where it is merged without anyone but the one who coded the PR knowing precisely what the changes are about, resulting in awful discoveries once it's shipped to the players.
4) Respect the vision. If something you want to add is not in the vision document then discuss it in #meta-dev and if there is agreement the document can be updated.
5) Be open to criticism. Sometimes the stuff you made and that you are proud of might not be popular in its current form. That's ok and it's a part of the process.
6) Include a flowchart if it involves adding a new recipe chain. Any new PR without it will be rejected no matter how good it can be. If you don’t know how, try [draw.io](https://draw.io).

## Balancing PRs
They must follow the vision we have, and follow 4. of the Content Section. A PR affecting balancing should always be labeled as such, and not be mixed in with other unrelated changes in the same PR. For IV and below, follow 2. of the Content creation section. For LuV and above, it must at least have 2 approvals, and one of them must be a member of the github's admin team (list of them [here](https://github.com/orgs/GTNewHorizons/teams/admin)).

When a PR is tagged as a balance affecting PR (currently "Affects Balance"), devs are required to answer the following questions to clarify their viewpoint and make discussion easier, as well as document discussions that may have happened in Discord (hard to search). Similar to recipe chains, any new balance PR made without answering the questions will be rejected no matter how good it is. Devs are not required to have perfect answers for all questions (eg some meta changes are difficult to know), but an attempt should be made at answering each:
1. What goal is this change trying to achieve? What tier is it targeting?
2. What side effects does this have on other lines/systems? How does it change the game meta?
3. If relevant, do you have any metrics or a spreadsheet/visualization explaining your change? If it is a new multiblock, could you provide a picture of it and/or a practical setup? This may help us understand it better.
4. Is this change made in expectation or in tandem with another unwritten or unmerged change coming later?

The question requirement may be bypassed in reasonable scenarios, such as emergency reverts.
</div>

Commit message:

initial guidelines for reviewing a PR

developer's code of conduct.md, after:

<div align="justify">

# GTNH Developer’s Code of Conduct and Contribution Guidelines

## Behavior
Any GT:NH dev must be respectful to anyone on the GitHub, and in Discord, or any other place where they might represent the GT:NH project (no insulting, no maliciously trolling, no looking down on the others etc). Basically, don't be a jerk. In particular, no insulting other developers if they do not agree with your ideas, and vice versa. This can be a reason to be demoted, no matter your contributions to the pack.

## Documentation in PR
To improve review quality, in PR about new feature/feature change/balance changes, you should always explain what you are doing in the PR, and why you did it. The more precise your description, the better, as it helps to decide if the change is ok or not. Screenshots and videos are a bonus, as they can directly be copy/pasted in #upcoming-features. Titles should be written as if they are to be read from a changelog, given that is how it is autogenerated (context is important!), About the commits, prefer multiple short ones over one big commit, and name them in such way that they are reflective of your changes.

## Content creation
1) You should avoid touching areas of the pack you have never reached personally as a player, unless you have feedback from other devs/players who are experienced in those areas.
2) You should avoid adding new content below IV tier, the game is already dense enough as it is (especially the chemlines!). However, bug fixes and QoL changes are always appreciated. If you have a good reason to add it, discuss with the team in #meta-dev, and if general consensus is reached, then you can start working on it. This is important! We don’t want anyone to waste dev time on PRs that will get rejected.
3) Don't make PRs with new stuff if it hasn't been discussed with the team before. We had enough occurrences of that in the pack, where it is merged without anyone but the one who coded the PR knowing precisely what the changes are about, resulting in awful discoveries once it's shipped to the players.
4) Respect the vision. If something you want to add is not in the vision document then discuss it in #meta-dev and if there is agreement the document can be updated.
5) Be open to criticism. Sometimes the stuff you made and that you are proud of might not be popular in its current form. That's ok and it's a part of the process.
6) Include a flowchart if it involves adding a new recipe chain. Any new PR without it will be rejected no matter how good it can be. If you don’t know how, try [draw.io](https://draw.io).

## Balancing PRs
They must follow the vision we have, and follow 4. of the Content Section. A PR affecting balancing should always be labeled as such, and not be mixed in with other unrelated changes in the same PR. For IV and below, follow 2. of the Content creation section. For LuV and above, it must at least have 2 approvals, and one of them must be a member of the github's admin team (list of them [here](https://github.com/orgs/GTNewHorizons/teams/admin)).

When a PR is tagged as a balance affecting PR (currently "Affects Balance"), devs are required to answer the following questions to clarify their viewpoint and make discussion easier, as well as document discussions that may have happened in Discord (hard to search). Similar to recipe chains, any new balance PR made without answering the questions will be rejected no matter how good it is. Devs are not required to have perfect answers for all questions (eg some meta changes are difficult to know), but an attempt should be made at answering each:
1. What goal is this change trying to achieve? What tier is it targeting?
2. What side effects does this have on other lines/systems? How does it change the game meta?
3. If relevant, do you have any metrics or a spreadsheet/visualization explaining your change? If it is a new multiblock, could you provide a picture of it and/or a practical setup? This may help us understand it better.
4. Is this change made in expectation or in tandem with another unwritten or unmerged change coming later?

The question requirement may be bypassed in reasonable scenarios, such as emergency reverts.

## Reviewing a PR
This will try to explain a few guidelines on how to review a PR. This it not to be followed 100%, but just a general guideline on how a review should go.

### 1. Know your limits and expand them
People have a limit to the amount of things they currently know, but not really to the ones they can know in the future. It is recommended to not try and jump many steps at once and instead slowly climb the ladder to understand how to do things. Don't try to review a PR in an area you don't know, but take a look at it and see if you can notice some things that don't make sense and ask about them to learn what they do. Expand your knowledge as you look through a PR and don't go to a complex one right away when you don't know your limit. It is valuable for even a new dev to look at what another does. They can find pieces of code which are missing or not making sense (Another term for this being "code smells"). One shouldn't approve a PR if they don't know a lot in detail, but can review it to get their questions answered and make sure the author thinks again why he did that.

### 2. If there is something not understandable after a few glances. Ask the author what it means.
If something is only understood by the author then it can go down to lost knowledge as the author could have just implemented this one thing and then disappear. If you want to understand it ask the author to explain it in a comment or something similar. That way it can be preserved to time for longer. If something continues to be unexplainable with a comment, the author should document it in code. 

### 3. Don't nitpick too much.
Nitpicks get annoying after some time. If one did a cleanup with automatic tools then that is to be expected, as even automated tools don't catch everything. Don't try to coach on variable names too much. Indents and star imports should now be fixed by spotless so the PR will be unable to be merged if they are there. Try to make it so that the major issues are addressed first and then nitpick, still not recommended as it doesn't make you seen in a great way by some, the author after all made the code and they are human too.

### 4. Look at the description of the PR.
The best way to see what was changed in a quick notice is through the description of the PR, if its empty it should be filled out by the author. This also allows for those looking through the changelog and seeing the title of the PR to also see the changes with a bit more detail. The description of the PR also allows for one to determine whether one could review it or should be left for someone else. 

### 5. Contribute Positively
It's essential to understand that behind every pull request, there's a person who has invested time and effort. Your comments reflect on the entire GTNH organization and can profoundly impact someone's motivation. A singular negative or rude comment might dissuade a developer from contributing in future, potentially leading to a loss of valuable input and innovation for the project. Remember, today's novice contributor can be tomorrow's project lead. We all started here.

Encourage growth by ensuring that feedback is constructive, actionable, and respectful. Highlight what's done well just as much as what needs improvement. You might be surprised how much some kind words mean to others. If something is unclear, frame your queries as genuine questions rather than implicit criticisms. A community thrives when its members feel valued and respected.

</div>
