vision of the modpack/breakdown/tech tree/Steam Tier.md, before:

## 2.ii. Steam Age
<div align="justify">

**vision on the tier**:
This gives the player insight into the method in which GT operates for tiering and material processing, which is also applicable for all tiers after. This makes it an important tier to ensure the player understands such information properly.


**Major unlocks/rewards**:
- Ore doubling with Macerator and then even faster with Steam Grinder
- Forestry worktable for easier mass crafting
- Hazmat suit againt Pollution
- Tinkers Hammer, Lumber Axe, and Crossbow. With upgrades in materials in following tiers.
- Hang Glider
- Regular backpacks

**Major milestone(s)**:
- Building the Bricked Blast Furnace
- Reaching the Nether
- First circuits

**Major challenge(s)**:
- Stable steam production

**Optional challenge(s)**:
- Conquer overworld dungeons
- Establish a steady charcoal supply

**End of tier**: build the first electric machine

**Main material**: Bronze (machines), later Steel (advanced TiCon tools)

**Secondary material(s)**:
- ...
- ...

**Cable materials**:
- ...
- ...

**Pipe materials**:
- ...
- ...

</div>

Commit message:

IV, food cans, and healing axe

vision of the modpack/breakdown/tech tree/Steam Tier.md, after:

## 2.ii. Steam Age
<div align="justify">

**vision on the tier**:
This gives the player insight into the method in which GT operates for tiering and material processing, which is also applicable for all tiers after. This makes it an important tier to ensure the player understands such information properly.


**Major unlocks/rewards**:
- Ore doubling with Macerator and then even faster with Steam Grinder
- Forestry worktable for easier mass crafting
- Hazmat suit againt Pollution
- Can obtain healing axe as a reward for a long and indepth food quest.
- Tinkers Hammer, Lumber Axe, and Crossbow. With upgrades in materials in following tiers.
- Hang Glider
- Regular backpacks

**Major milestone(s)**:
- Building the Bricked Blast Furnace
- Reaching the Nether
- First circuits

**Major challenge(s)**:
- Stable steam production

**Optional challenge(s)**:
- Conquer overworld dungeons
- Establish a steady charcoal supply

**End of tier**: build the first electric machine

**Main material**: Bronze (machines), later Steel (advanced TiCon tools)

**Secondary material(s)**:
- ...
- ...

**Cable materials**:
- ...
- ...

**Pipe materials**:
- ...
- ...

</div>
